Now, to build an app, I have a brand new flutter app here, a basic app as it comes created by Flutter
Create, and you find this snapshot, this main dart and display aspect on Yamal file attached in case
you want to start with the exact same app.
And I also already launched it here on an Android emulator.
And as you can see, this is really our standard starting app here.
So now let's turn it into the app we actually want.
And for that, of course, I'm going to utilize all that knowledge we gathered for that cause, though
the app we build will not be too fancy because I rather want to focus on those firebase features and
how to utilize those features in a flutter app in this module.
Nonetheless, we'll need a bunch of different elements here, to be precise.
We'll at least need two screens because we'll definitely have those two screens login and authentication
screen and the chat screen.
And of course, we'll also need a couple of widgets.
Now, for that, I'll add a screen folder where we can add those screens and a widgets folder which
will hold any other widgets which are not standalone screens in the screens folder.
I'll add my auth underscore screenshots dart file, which will hold the authentication screen and I'll
also add the jet screen, which you guessed it will hold to Chet.
And for widgets will add them as we go in as we need them.
Now, I will actually start with a basic chat screen here.
We will actually need authentication before we can chat.
But I want to show you how Firebase works, and that is best shown with the database feature and therefore
will start with the chat and will turn it into a real chat with users later.
So on the chat screen, let's create a new state, less widget actually, which will name chat screen
and make sure that in this file you import material dodge start from the flutter package.
And here I will not just return such a container, but I actually want to return a list view of chat
messages now for that, I'll use that builder mode here to have that item builder and you'll learn about
that in the course.
The item builder here takes a function, essentially, which gets the context and the index of the item
that is being built.
And then here in this arrow function, for example, we return the item, the widget that should be
built for every item we have in that list view.
So here we could build a simple, let's say, container where we have some padding with ATCH, INSETs,
all of eight to have a petting of eight in all directions and then a child, which is simply some text.
This works like that.
Now the list view builder also needs the item count so that we know how many items should be created.
And I'm just going to build 10 items here soon.
We'll build this dynamically.
Now, the chat screen, of course, should be visible, so let's go back to the main DARD file and here
I'll rename this title to Fleder Chat and get rid of that comment here.
Get rid of this comment here.
And here under home, I will not render my home page here, instead, I'll delete all that code down
there.
And instead, I will just render my chat screen here, so make sure you add that import here to the
chat screen dard file from your own package, this important is all to fine to use from the screens
folder and the chat screen dard file.
And with that, we have our chat screen being rendered here now, if we save everything and you have
a running emulator and you run your application on that emulator, you should see this works here.
Now, this looks ugly because we're missing a scaffold.
So let's go back to the chat screen and we can refactor this to wrap the list, view with the widget
and wrap it with a scaffold here.
Now, the scaffold does not have a child, but a body instead.
And if we do just add and we save this, this already looks a bit nicer.
Now, that's, of course, just some dummy static data.
So therefore, let's now explore Firebase and see how that works.